{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
\margl1800\margr1800\margb1440\margt1440\deflang1033\lndscpsxn
{\colortbl;
\red250\green138\blue59;
\red178\green178\blue178;
\red222\green40\blue152;
}
{\fonttbl;
{\f0 Arial}
}
{\b\fs36 all\b0}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:00:00] }
{Hi, }
{\pard\par}
{I'm Tim Panton and this is the distributed future podcast. In this podcast, we interview people who are doing niche things in the hope that we might learn something about what the future looks like based on their current practice. Under normal circumstances. We, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{have a little chat beforehand with, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{my cohost Vimla  Appadoo, and we discuss what we're going to hear and what lessons we might learn from it.}
{\pard\par}
{Unfortunately,  Vim's not available this time, so, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{you just get me, the interview is with Georgia Marshall Brown, who. Introduces us to some of the ideas about how crafting is intersecting with modern technology. So. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{you wouldn't necessarily think of sewing as a very high tech business. And in a lot of ways it isn't, but, and particularly not maybe sewing patterns, but it's very interesting for me to see how she has intersected those things with modern technology.}
{\pard\par}
{And how. She's also, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{crossing over into the kind of repair and mend, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{well, that we were talking about with Brian corporate show while back and, and a number of other people. So it's very, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{exciting for me to see the sorts of things we've been looking at in terms of community and in terms of reuse and crossing over from online to offline and back again, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{reiterated in another domain.}
{\pard\par}
{So that was kind of, }
{\strike\cf2 um. \strike0}
{Nice to hear that we might even be on the right track to something. So, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{with that, I will leave you to, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{listen to Georgia. I would encourage you to, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{subscribe to this podcast, but also to encourage your friends to listen to it too, if you found it interesting. And, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{there are a number of back issues that cover related or actually unrelated topics.}
{\pard\par}
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so. Right. Enjoy.}
{\pard\par}
{ }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:01:56] }
{, I'm Georgia Marshall Brown. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{about a year ago, I started my own crafting business. So I'm inspired mainly by my . A passion for sewing, but also for, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{inspired by my son. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{he likes to have clothes for himself that match with his Teddy.}
{\pard\par}
{And we're also quite passionate about upcycling and recycling existing fabrics and garments. }
{\strike\cf2 Uh, \strike0}
{to give them a longer use in life. }
{\strike\cf2 Uh, \strike0}
{for me, the whole project has been a bit of an antidote from a career in digital marketing and project management. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so the sort of two things I guess come together when you start your own business.}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:02:39] }
{So yeah, you're not, well, you should give it the name. You haven't said what it's called yet.}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:02:44] }
{Aaah, Teddyand.me , }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:02:49] }
{so the, the thesis is, is to kind of make things out of existing. Materials that you got kind of maybe in the back of the wardrobe that make two garments, one for offspring and one for the offspring's Teddy. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:03:06] }
{That's right. Yeah. So, yeah, I mean, it really started because I, when when my son's Xavi was born, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{I wanted to make him things.}
{\pard\par}
{I found that a lot of the clothes on the high street were very gender orientated, so blue for boys and pink for girls. And }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{actually not every boy is into. Tractors and not every girl is into princesses. So making your own stuff means that you can make exactly what you want and what your child wants. So it's kind of where it started.}
{\pard\par}
{And at the same time, I made my son a Teddy. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{which, you know, as a craft crafter was kind of a, a kind of GoTo project. But I know, right. But often with children, Teddy's become quite important. And those. Those teddies or dolls or whatever, become almost part of the family. So every trip you travel on, every visit to grandma's house, whatever, you know, Teddy is always there.}
{\pard\par}
{And I have to say, as a mother, you're constantly thinking. Please don't lose Teddy, you know, cause we have a meltdown on our hands. So that was kind of like where we were at the beginning. And then as he got older and we were making clothes for him and he was having more input into what those clothes would be, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{we were.}
{\pard\par}
{Packing his clothes to go on holiday. And he suddenly said, Oh, you know, where's Teddy's clothes? And I was like, you know, this naked Teddy? }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{I was like, ah, I haven't got any clothes for Teddy. So of course that night before we went on holiday, I saw it through a bit of an all nighter and using the scraps leftover from those handmade projects that I've made for Xavi.}
{\pard\par}
{I rustled up some clothes for Teddy, and that's sort of where it came from. But I think, you know, as a, as a kind of, you know, }
{\strike\cf2 uh. \strike0}
{A desire to kind of not waste so much stuff. We started to look for fabrics that we already had to see what we could use that we already had within the house. And often they would be t-shirts that Chris and I weren't wearing anymore, or things that Xavi had grown out of but wanted to continue to wear.}
{\pard\par}
{And so by using those fabrics and incorporating them with other fabrics, you can obviously extend their life or make them a larger size or, or that kind of thing. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:05:20] }
{What strikes me about that from a design perspective about what you're doing, is that like using those fabrics. From multiple sources, kind of forces you to be quite bold in the way that they look, which is great.}
{\pard\par}
{I mean, they're quite sort of, quite often your designs are quite sort of contrasty and asymmetric, and you know, there's quite a lot going on in them, which I think is, is, is wonderful, but it sort of. Slightly unexpected from a craft perspective. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:05:48] }
{Yeah. I think some of it's, eh. Yeah. Well, so as you say, some of it is kind of forced by the nature of having to bring different fabrics together.}
{\pard\par}
{All of our sewing patterns have. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{smaller pattern pieces than typical commercial patterns. Because obviously when you're harvesting fabrics from other garments, they don't have so much freedom that there's not such large amounts of fabric to choose from. So as you say, some of it is kind of born out of.}
{\pard\par}
{That. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but I think, you know, the fabrics and the garments themselves can, the beauty of crafting is that you can make them as wild as you like or, or they can be quite conservative. So, you know, one of the patterns that we have is for a pair of trousers. You know, we give ideas to make them from three upcycle from three men's shirts.}
{\pard\par}
{Now if you choose shits that are all of a similar color gray or black or whatever, then your trousers come out quite subdued. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but the same trousers could be absolutely and insane and wacky if you chose, you know, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, uh, \strike0}
{a plaid shirt, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{an orange shirt and a Hawaiian shirt, all of those together. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{and you'd still end up with something that was unique and bold, but I think some of these.}
{\pard\par}
{These things. It's also a bit sort of keep sake-y as well. You know, some of these fabrics that you're giving a new life to might have a sentimental attachment. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{a lot of the things that we have in the house we've kept, because we did, so for one reason or another, we didn't want to throw them away. Either we like them or remember wearing them at a time that was nice or you know, whatever.}
{\pard\par}
{So even though it may be there's a, a hole in it or a stain on it, or we've outgrown it or. It's not the right fashion anymore. We've kept it for one of those reasons. So sometimes bringing those things into a new garment, and particularly for me, one that your child wears almost kind of transfers that. Good.}
{\pard\par}
{Will, }
{\strike\cf2 uh. \strike0}
{With it into that new garment that your child then wears with, you know, pride and joy. And also when your child gets to a certain age, you know, whether they actually help you make them, or whether they just input into which things go into them. It's really, I feel like it, it certainly gives Xavi sense of ownership.}
{\pard\par}
{A lot of the things that we create are the fabrics, at least are chosen by him, even if he doesn't necessarily at age eight, sew them himself. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:08:12] }
{So that's not. So the upcycling is almost more about the emotional attachment and the history than it is about. The ecology, let's say. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:08:25] }
{Yeah, I mean, I, I th I guess it just depends on your viewpoint, doesn't it?}
{\pard\par}
{I mean, for me, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{it's started because it just didn't want to throw as much stuff out. And also I'm a terrible hoarder. So, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{we have, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{you know, just moved, you know, basically as we moved, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{moved houses over our marriage, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{as my husband says, we just keep getting a bigger house so that I don't have to throw anything away.}
{\pard\par}
{So I'll laugh, continues to fail with things that I won't part with. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{on the other hand, I'm very organized person. So generally speaking, I'll say, tomorrow I'm going to make this jacket and I need that coat that's in bag. 10 on the right hand side, can you bring it down from the loft please? And lo and behold, it comes down.}
{\pard\par}
{So for me, it's, it's great. I've got my own kind of, I guess, library of, of things that, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{I just need to get on and use in some ways. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:09:15] }
{And it's all good insulation. So it's not like you're not doing, doing the eco thing as well. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:09:21] }
{Yes. That's another ecological kind of bonus there. }
{\pard\par}
{Yeah. So I think, you know, there are, there are, there's a dual aspect to it, isn't there?}
{\pard\par}
{So, you know, one is. The kind of very pure ecologically sound, let's not put things in landfill or create new things when we don't need them. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but I think there's also a kind of, you know, as you hinted at, that kind of a keepsake memory kind of. Aspect of it. I mean, one of the sewing patterns that we have is for to make, make the Teddy himself.}
{\pard\par}
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{and, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{quite a lot of our customers who don't have children have bought the pattern to make keepsake bears or memory bears. So, }
{\strike\cf2 um. \strike0}
{It departed loved one. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{you know, there's some clothes, some garments. You want to remember that person by as then the Teddy, because it has very small pattern pieces, means that you're able to make the bath from.}
{\pard\par}
{Those garments equally. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{if you, lots of people have bought them to make bears out of uniforms. So Brown uniforms, a guy was making one out of uniform, which I thought was brilliant. And, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{you know, because again, we keep, we all have a tendency to keep these things, put them in a box and the loft and never look at them.}
{\pard\par}
{But we didn't throw them because we wanted to keep them. So if there's a way of bringing these things. You know, into sort of more circulation, which you said the box and the loft, and it means you can enjoy them on a more regular basis. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:10:54] }
{Yeah. So these, these, these patterns, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{they ended up getting sold in by mail order or in shops.}
{\pard\par}
{How do they get out into the world? }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:11:04] }
{So. Don? Well, as I say quite, we're quite new, but, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{we were trying a number of different channels, so we have, so some are, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{virtual channels and some all, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{bricks and mortar. So we have done a number of the big crafting trade shows. So these are where you take a stand effectively, like an a in an ex exhibition center, and you're there for four days and.}
{\pard\par}
{The customers, I guess come to you? Those customers typically are, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{55 plus. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{and, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{I think it probably wouldn't, wouldn't be mean to say, but are pretty much hardcore crafters. So they really, you know, they're there to buy and they're there to find something that appeals to that crafting nature. Some of those shows are.}
{\pard\par}
{Craft specific. So we did the Harrogate knit and stitch show. So by the, by the name you can imagine very, very specific audience of either knitters or Sewers. And then we have done other trade shows where, }
{\strike\cf2 um. \strike0}
{I think trade shows are not really trade shows. Cause therefore the consumers or consumer shows, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{offer a more broader base crafting.}
{\pard\par}
{So then they would include like, things, you know, everything from card making to sewing, to sculpture, whatever it painting, et cetera, et cetera. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:12:24] }
{So in, in those, in those are, you do have like a corner that's for needle work and another corner that's for painting or are you like. Or interspersed in your stance?}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:12:37] }
{Yeah, typically, typically they jumble them up. I think the idea is that, you know, that try, they try to get people to experience new things. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{you know, and kind of, I guess it's the thrill of the search to some extent. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:12:48] }
{Oh, okay. Interesting. Cause like a real trade show, they'll, they'll try and like often try and create the classic trade search show or try and compartmentalize you into the lefthand hall.}
{\pard\par}
{We'll have this in and whatever. That's fascinating. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:13:03] }
{Yeah. I actually sometimes look for some of my competitors because with being relatively new, for me, it makes more sense to be near people that I know are sort of in the same field as you say, but generally speaking, I mean, you get to pick where your standards to some extent, but they are, they're not zoned.}
{\pard\par}
{So that's, so that's one channel that we've explored for off the back of that, we've met quite a few retailers, and so we have a couple of resellers. So these are traditional bricks and mortar, kind of haberdashery kind of shops. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{it's one in Leeds, one in Dundee. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so it's just, we am really being out and pushed that.}
{\pard\par}
{But as we've met people at the shows, we've, }
{\strike\cf2 um. \strike0}
{You know, we've worked with them to, for them to resell some of our patterns. That's another channel. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{I was recently on hochanda, which is a kind of a, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{like a QVC, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{like a shopping channel. But specifically for crafts. So that, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{is really interesting.}
{\pard\par}
{So basically you're on air where the presenter and, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{selling, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{your, your wares, I guess. }
{\strike\cf2 Uh, \strike0}
{on the television, it's a live show. So that was really eyeopening. Nerve wracking. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but, but good fun and that is absolutely a fascinating set up because basically they do the shows live so that they can, they watch the reaction of the audience and how many things are being purchased and which things you did on screen that, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{spiked interest.}
{\pard\par}
{On, you know, on the purchases. And then, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{the presenter is obviously rigged up to the, to the guys producing it all, and they'll say, and theire ear, Oh, ask Georgia to show that again, because everyone reacted to it. So a thing.}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:15:02] }
{It's presented as a TV show, but he said that actually like over digital channel or digital air, or is it coming over sky or is it like, do you stream it? How do, how do people consume }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:15:15] }
{it? Sky free view. You can't get it on virgin and I don't think, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{but obviously, yes, you can stream it on the internet as well.}
{\pard\par}
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so, so yeah, but it's television basically. So, yeah, it has this sky channel and }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:15:30] }
{this fast feedback of people actually buying. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:15:34] }
{Yeah. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:15:35] }
{That's kind of like, it's almost like the web only more so. Fascinating. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:15:39] }
{So that was really, that's really good. I hope to hope to be back on there. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{later in the year. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{obviously they're struggling a little bit with a lockdown and having to do all sorts of strange things and get.}
{\pard\par}
{People hooked in from home and things like that, because obviously they can't have people in their studio and stuff, you know, so yeah, that's }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:15:58] }
{it. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{am I allowed to ask about the economics of that? Like, you know, do you make any money out of it? Do they charge you to be on when you may not want to choose to say }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:16:08] }
{no, I won't give specifics, but I'll give you the principles.}
{\pard\par}
{So, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{so if you, so the trade show we talked about before, fair, I, buy my stand. And I take home my profits with , you pay nothing. }
{\strike\cf2 Uh, \strike0}
{but they take a cut of your, what you sell. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:16:26] }
{They are sharing the risk with you in a way, which is just sharing the rest. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:16:29] }
{Yeah. So, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{so that, so that's, it's, it's good. It's a different model completely.}
{\pard\par}
{And from my perspective as a new business, that's, you know, it's nice to try different. You know, different models as well. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{what else have we done? We have, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{I recently . Did a Facebook live takeover for one of the crafting channels. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so that's something that they've started doing specifically, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{during lockdown, which, you know, you can understand.}
{\pard\par}
{So basically they're trying to develop content as much as anything else. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so there was no cost to that because basically they're just looking for content, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{to keep their audiences engaged. }
{\strike\cf2 Uh, \strike0}
{whilst they were aren't any physical shows to attend, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:17:13] }
{how did that differ from live TV? }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:17:16] }
{While there was, there wasn't the live feedback in the same way and it, I was on my own rather than having a seasoned professional kind of helping me do the sales pitch.}
{\pard\par}
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but. Similar in the respect that my part as much was doing the demonstration, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{showing how things can be done. And I guess having done her Hochada before with the help of those professionals, I had learned some of what I should do and not do. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{eh, it not, so it was okay. }
{\strike\cf2 Uh, \strike0}
{it's tricky to manage your own camera and flip it round and hold it steady and you know, all of that kind of stuff.}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:17:58] }
{Mm, mm. Mm. Yeah. I'm, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{I'm in awe of the fact that you can do that. And when I occasionally have to make videos of. Of demonstrating something, particularly with this IOT hardware, like actually have to like do that and it will take me whole morning to get a five minute shot. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:18:18] }
{Yeah, it's tricky. It really is.}
{\pard\par}
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{I think those are kind of the main. }
{\strike\cf2 Uh, \strike0}
{things that we've tried so far. I mean, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{you know, there are plans in the future to do some more physical stuff, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{including potentially running workshops. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{and you know, or lessons if, if you, if you like, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{I think w crafting in general, }
{\strike\cf2 um. \strike0}
{So it's, it's a very, so crafting in general and not talking specifically about sewing, but, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{it's quite a mindful activity.}
{\pard\par}
{I mean, part of the reason that even before doing this as a, as a business, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{exercise, you know, it's something that really occupies all of the senses, and that really helps me personally to relax. And. Switch off from perhaps other pressures that might be in my mind. And I think, }
{\strike\cf2 um. \strike0}
{You know, that's true.}
{\pard\par}
{Quite a lot of people. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{I think the other thing is that there, the other aspect of crafting is the kind of community or so to find the like-minded hobbyist kind of thing. Where do you find those people? And you know, I've met friends through, through going to and attending workshops, made real friends, because obviously those people are there with very similar interests to you.}
{\pard\par}
{So there is still something in that physical element of meeting and doing together. Now, obviously in the, in the current situation, there just isn't that opportunity, but it's, and it's, I think, you know, like this Facebook takeover that I did, you know, that's, that's an attempt at trying to do that in a virtual sense.}
{\pard\par}
{But sometimes there's nothing better than. Go in with your best mate to like sit and chat all day whilst making something can, you know, spending that quality time together. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so I think, you know, some of those things that I'm planning for the future will, we'll still go back to that more, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{offline, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{you know, interaction of a more traditional kind of nature.}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:20:20] }
{Have you looked at? }
{\strike\cf2 Um, uh, \strike0}
{what's it? Twitch. I mean, I know people who are in, in the, in the more kind of geeky end of making, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{who do Twitch shows, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{of, you know, how do I, how did I build that robot? That kind of stuff. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:20:35] }
{No, I haven't done that. But, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{the crafting community. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{there's a lot of, it's still on YouTube or Pinterest.}
{\pard\par}
{I think, you know, the internet is still, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{a jumping off point for creativity in terms of the craft industry. But, }
{\strike\cf2 um.\strike0}
{\pard\par}
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{quite often the audience's oldest still, I mean, the saying that millennials are crafting more, but a lot of the people that I see are still in the more, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{time rich and probably money rich, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{older generation still. And so actually the. The online environments, all the more of the more, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{or the older online environments.}
{\pard\par}
{I'm not making Facebook and YouTube. I kind of like known entities }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:21:26] }
{and significantly older demographic than some of the others. Yeah. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:21:31] }
{Typically those kinds of those how tos and things. Yes, absolutely. They, they absolutely exist. The crafting blogging community is, is out there. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{Facebook groups are, are, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{you know.}
{\pard\par}
{Really, I think at particularly this time, very valuable to those communities. People, you know, desperate to, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{show in town. You know, I made this, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{do you like it? A lot of people looking for some, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{reassurance that they, you know, on the right track. Other people would be asking for advice. I'm new to this, I haven't done it, or I haven't done it for 10 years.}
{\pard\par}
{But since we, we're locked down, you know, can somebody tell me how to turn my sewing machine on? Or whatever it is, you know? }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{they're, they're really, they're really valuable spaces, but I think, like most. Online, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{forums that there are risks and if those groups are not, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{led or, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{monitored, they can very quickly, }
{\strike\cf2 um.\strike0}
{\pard\par}
{Fall apart, you know, with people with a, I don't know, you know, obnoxious posters and trolls spoil the party. I guess that's what I'm trying to say without being too mean to anybody. But differences of opinion, even in crafting can quickly escalate in these kinds of groups and people get very hurt and, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{you know, they, they regularly kickoff.}
{\pard\par}
{It's the same. I mean, you just, sometimes I'm amazed because I just think of, you know, really these are, these are often older people, like have they no filter? Why would they say that? You know, but, }
{\strike\cf2 um, uh, \strike0}
{and people get hurt. And that I find really sad. And I just think, you know, if you were at a crafting workshop, you wouldn't behave like that.}
{\pard\par}
{They wouldn't, none of them would behave like that. Why would they behave like that in a virtual. Crafting room or workshop. But unfortunately it happens. So I think, you know, whilst these community, these online communities are very valuable, particularly now when actually there is no alternative, those, those communities.}
{\pard\par}
{Have to be firmly led and firmly monitored and an  say meditated. That's not the word I'm looking for, is it? }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{you know what I mean? }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:23:45] }
{Yeah. Mediation }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:23:46] }
{mediated, }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:23:48] }
{although medicated might also be necessary. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:23:52] }
{Medicated. Yeah, whatever. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:23:55] }
{We had a really interesting, person on, where are we about a month ago?}
{\pard\par}
{Bit longer, maybe, who is talking about. It needs actually started the practice of, of how to kind of diffuse, }
{\strike\cf2 um, uh, \strike0}
{groups like that. Like when they're starting to go off. How do you, how do you rescue them? }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{it's fascinating cause he's from, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{like actual real peace negotiation background. So, like, you know, in supposed to kind of solving the Korean war or whatever, he's now looking at how do you do this in, in, in a much smaller scale in, in online groups.}
{\pard\par}
{And, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{and it was fascinating you, his thing was that, that basically, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{you, the problem is that you get a reward for, for. Being unreasonable effectively, which you don't in real life. And so, but the, the thing that he noticed and that that sort of take you can take advantage of to unwind that is that actually nobody really enjoys it.}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:24:56] }
{Yeah, I'd be an asset. I think it turns a lot of people off those groups. And actually what, what you tend to see in these crafting groups is that they, that the group does. Generally, quite quickly start to self moderate because even if one or two people are being unreasonable, as you say, nobody enjoys it.}
{\pard\par}
{So actually often people will step in to kind of try and sort it out themselves. }
{\strike\cf2 Um. \strike0}
{So, but yeah, it's, it's a difficult space and I think it makes, you know, well, it certainly makes me feel uncomfortable and I quite often tune out of those kind of spaces for a while if there's been a particularly nasty uprising.}
{\pard\par}
{I think, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{some of you know that it's the site when you go to a dinner party and you know, with your in laws the first time and they say, Oh, you know, you know, you, you, you make a promise, no religion, no politics sort of thing. You know, before you start. And I think, you know, there are. A lot of these groups do understand that there are subjects that, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{you know, are going to be like touch points if you like.}
{\pard\par}
{And often the group has rules where those are, are, are just taboo subjects. And actually, interestingly recently I've seen that. So a lot of the sewing community is making PPI for key workers, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{which is obviously very admirable and valuable. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so making scrub, scrub bags, hats, face masks, all of those kinds of things, which is, you know, fantastic.}
{\pard\par}
{And, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{it, however it comes with a lot of, a few like political debate as to whether those are the right, whether that's the right thing to be doing, whether people should be. Wearing those homemade face masks, et cetera, et cetera. A lot of the, the sewing communities where these conversations first started up, you know, can anybody help with this?}
{\pard\par}
{Can anybody help with that? Those community groups are now actually shifting those conversations into separate threads. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{because it just. They can quickly dissolve into a row, I guess, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{if, if the wrong person, you know, takes, takes offense, I guess. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:27:00] }
{So you mentioned Instagram as well as Facebook and YouTube.}
{\pard\par}
{What's, what's. Did you say Pinterest or did I just imagine that? }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:27:10] }
{No, no, I did say Pinterest. I mean, to be honest, I haven't done a huge amount in Pinterest myself, but, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{as, as I guess as a consumer, I think Pinterest is, is still a place to go for inspiration. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{I think, I think the internet in general, even, I mean, we're talking about channels, but in Instagram and Pinterest, }
{\strike\cf2 um.\strike0}
{\pard\par}
{Specifically, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{are about inspiring. So that tends to typically be less of the kind of how tos, which like we said, would play on somewhere like YouTube or on a blog, but it's more about like beautiful pictures or things to inspire makes. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{and I think, again, you know, that they're real jumping off points for creativity.}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:27:54] }
{Well geographically, I mean, you do. Are you part of a United Kingdom sewing group when you're on Facebook, or is it the Northwest or is it, you know. Chorley or something like how granular are these groups? }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:28:08] }
{I think it depends. Depends what you're looking for. So, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{I think my favorite group at the minute is something like upcycle clothing on Facebook.}
{\pard\par}
{And that's a, it's a global group, so there's no geographical barriers, but you know, barriers to that. But then those people, I don't think have any, }
{\strike\cf2 um. \strike0}
{Intention of meeting up really about that. It's, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{I think a lot of it is about reassurance that they're doing the right thing and you know, an inspiration, I guess.}
{\pard\par}
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{and sharing your successes. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{I am part of some more local sewing groups. }
{\strike\cf2 Um. \strike0}
{But I don't actually think that the geographical kind of content really matters unless you intend to physically meet up and actually generally, probably wouldn't. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so, so I'm not sure. I'm not sure that the geography really matters in that typically the groups tend to be more around the specifics of the craft that you're doing.}
{\pard\par}
{\strike\cf2 Um. \strike0}
{Rather than the geography of it. I think the thing is with the technology that's out there today, now I'm not talking about internet technology here, but tech tools, if you like. So there's, there's all sorts of things that you can have in your home now from three D printers to laser cutters to screen printing kits to, you know, so much of it that you can have at home that, that you can kind of still share your.}
{\pard\par}
{Your, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{regardless of your geography and your location, you can still share your experience with online. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:29:40] }
{Right. Right. So, so it's not, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{it's really, it's, it's interesting that it's really not kind of geographically centered much. That's fascinating. And, and do, are there, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{associations and, and, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{kind of, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{I don't know, craft councils or like is there, are there quangos around kind of govern.}
{\pard\par}
{Practice or anything like that? }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:30:07] }
{Not really. I know a lot. It's not, as far as I'm aware, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{I think there are awards, which I guess gives you that kind of stamp of approval. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so there are the sewing awards and I think they all UK based. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{as far as I'm aware, and I think the generally run by . The magazines still.}
{\pard\par}
{So printed magazines still exist very much in the sector. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{you know, people still sit and have a coffee with a magazine, and often those. Patterns in those magazines, or there's like yarn thrown in. If it's a crocheting magazine or, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{I don't know. I'm not, I'm not a card maker, but card making materials within the card making magazine.}
{\pard\par}
{So that, and those guys typically run award, so, you know, best independent. }
{\strike\cf2 Uh, \strike0}
{design, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, um, \strike0}
{best, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{retail shop, best TV show, you know, those kinds of things. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so, so the, the, those awards kind of exist, and I think people do look at those as a kind of, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{a seal of approval or a stamp of authority. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:31:13] }
{Right.}
{\pard\par}
{Right. Interesting. And, and, and so they, cause we, I mean, when I'm, I asked that because we, we, every now and then we stumble across this kind of, these really interesting quasi. Governmental organizations or, no, not nongovernmental organizations. I guess. Like, my favorite so far is the, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{British amateur rocketry society.}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:31:36] }
{Rocket tree. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:31:37] }
{Yes. If you, if you want to launch a rocket in the UK and you want to be insured and basically you have to follow their code of conduct, and if you do that, the police won't NAB you for having access explosives and the insurance company will cover you. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:31:52] }
{Nice. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:31:53] }
{Like so little, these little organizations that exist outside government and, but that facilitate things happening as I, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{I'm constantly on the lookout for new ones cause they're just like, they suddenly, you suddenly come across when you think, I never knew that existed.}
{\pard\par}
{And, and, and it sort of has to, because otherwise that particular practice can't really happen. So, no, but, but, but anyway, so you, we're not in the, in, not in that, for }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:32:22] }
{no extreme sewing maybe hasn't quite hit the headlines yet, but, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{I can't, I know I can't think about anything to be honest. But, }
{\strike\cf2 um. \strike0}
{Yeah. But I think, I think people do look for, they still look for that reason, to believe.}
{\pard\par}
{So, you know, that's that, you know, the, those kinds of awards still do hold. }
{\strike\cf2 Um. \strike0}
{A level of prestige because the why consumers would, it's what consumers trust in, I guess. I guess it goes back to build which consumer magazine type thing. You know? If, if something has a seal of approval from other consumers, then.}
{\pard\par}
{You know, like reviews or testimonials, awards also kind of bring that level of reassurance, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{before you enter into a relationship by buying or using, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{products from, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{from, from a craft supply or whether they be sewing patterns or materials or world or }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:33:18] }
{the sewing patterns, these physical sewing patterns, or are they virtual as well?}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:33:23] }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{both. So I actually started with physical sewing patterns, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{because personally I prefer them. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but my research has shown me that it's a real, sort of 50, 50 split as to whether people prefer virtual or, or, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{physical. So, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{sewing patterns are quite, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{big pieces of paper. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{and I personally prefer to take my big sheet of paper with all the pattern drafted on it that I bought, and then I trace off the pieces that I need, and then I transfer those onto my fabric.}
{\pard\par}
{If you buy a PDF, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{which some of my nos are, I've now, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{both you can choose to have one shipped to you or you can download your PDF version. If you choose a PDF, you print it out at home on your, A4 paper. Paper, you then mosaic together was sellotape or print stick or whatever, and then you can cut it out and apply it to your fabric.}
{\pard\par}
{Now, I personally hate sticking all those tiles together. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but others prefer. That to tracing because if, if they know, they can print it out over and over again, then they will just effectively cut up their pattern sheet, use it once, and then print it again. Should they want to make it }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:34:42] }
{cuts out the tracing step, but adds a sticky step.}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:34:45] }
{Yeah. So for me, it's 50 50 and . Well, not just for me, the peep, this, the research I have done shows that basically there's a real split there. And some people prefer a PDF and some people prefer to trace. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{the PDs does have some advantages because whether sewing pattern, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{they look a bit. Complicated when you get them because effectively, so my patterns are age three to 12 so all of those sizes are effectively printed on top of each other.}
{\pard\par}
{And the and the lines kind of shift out a little bit for each size that the garment grows. And when you trace or cut it out, it's like those insoles that you get in your trainers, you know when you buy a pair of insoles for your trainers and you cut out the line for your shoe size. So they like that, but on a really large scale.}
{\pard\par}
{And so when you get a PDF pattern. You. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{I construct my PDF as layered PDFs as do most independent patent companies. So the idea is that you can then turn off the layers, except for the age of the, you know, the one that you're going to make. So if I'm gonna make an age eight for Xavi, that I can turn off all the other layers and it will just, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{it will hide all of the confusing lines that I'm not using.}
{\pard\par}
{So there are, you know, the advantages, }
{\strike\cf2 um. \strike0}
{Some people like to work to them, the instructions on a screen, they don't really print them out any way. I personally like a book, so I can make notes in it so that when, if I, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{adjust it or found something tricky, then I can write a little note in it. So if I come back to make it for Xavi a year later when he's grown into the next size, I've got that kind of stuff.}
{\pard\par}
{Jotted down in my paper pattern equally, some people only make the garment once and so they're not really that interested. So I think it's good to have both physical and PDF because as I say, I think the community just depends on their preferences as to what they prefer. Doesn't appear to be an age thing.}
{\pard\par}
{It doesn't, you know, some does not that the older generation of the sewing community prefer a physical pattern. That's just not the case. It seems to just be just a preference thing. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:36:54] }
{So is there a price difference in the sense that like the PDFs presumably could be used more than once and in theory could be forwarded to other people?}
{\pard\par}
{Or do you DRM them or, or, or }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:37:06] }
{no? Yeah, in theory they could be forwarded, but equally a paper pattern could also be passed to a friend. So, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{the, you know, our copyright specifies that you shouldn't do that, that you're buying the copy for yourself and for personal use. Ultimately sewing. }
{\strike\cf2 Uh, \strike0}
{patents are quite difficult because.}
{\pard\par}
{\strike\cf2 Uh, \strike0}
{a T-shirt is a T-shirt is a T-shirt. So if you, if you alter your pattern and you make the hand lens two centimeters longer or change the shape of the net Klein effectively, that's a different garment. And obviously as a craft, }
{\strike\cf2 uh. \strike0}
{Typically, many people will adjust what they're making to suit their own needs.}
{\pard\par}
{That's the joy . Yeah, exactly. So what, we have our copyrights in place and }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{and yes, there's a risk with both PDF and with printed that people will break those rules, share their patterns. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but it's difficult to enforce in terms of cost. Yes. The PDF is cheaper. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but obviously the consumer has the cost of printing out at home.}
{\pard\par}
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so ultimately. You know, may not be as cheap. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{by the time they've had it printed or printed it themselves cause they've got their printing to think about and their paper and the time, et cetera. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but from my perspective, we can afford to make the PDF cheaper because obviously I don't have the printing costs, that contract that transfers to the consumers.}
{\pard\par}
{Or the postage. So, so those costs are effectively transferred to the consumer and they absorb them by printing it off themselves and sticking it together themselves. But it does mean that we can make them. You know, cheaper. So, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{so again, it, it may be more appealing, but ultimately they have to have a printer and they have to have the ink cartridges.}
{\pard\par}
{And so it just, it just, I, yeah, I've, I struggled to tell you which is the best because as I say, the feedback I started with physical because that's what I prefer. And then rapidly having spoken to many people at the show was it was very evident that, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{at least half the market wanted the PDF, whereas.}
{\pard\par}
{We were still selling to at least half the market with, with the, with the printed. So it just makes sense to.}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:39:19] }
{They're looking kind of a little bit forward. Are there other things that you might sort of start to look at? I mean, you're talking about printers there, but like, you know, you mentioned three D printers and laser cutters. Might you be kind of doing, I don't know, designs for buttons for three D print on three D printers or, or laser cut the particularly difficult shapes or something like that?}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:39:46] }
{I don't know. No, no. Is the short answer. I guess I'm not there yet. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but I think, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{customization is really, I think, key. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{in my mind anyway, you know, the whole reason that you, a craft is to make something that's creative and unique to yourself and the kind of, you know, part of it represents your own self expression.}
{\pard\par}
{So. Any of those tools that can help you do that. So there's this tool called the, I think it's called the cricket. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{and so basically you can print, print, or cut vinyl at home that you can apply to t-shirts, to mugs to, I don't know, glass, whatever it is. And, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{it's a tiny little machine and was quite expensive.}
{\pard\par}
{I don't have one, but, }
{\strike\cf2 um. \strike0}
{I think those things are really giving people the sort of the, the ability to create really professional looking product. At home, customize things that they already have, make something new and different from what they have. So really liked that ethos. It's not something that, you know, in terms of will I be doing, will I be selling those types of machines in the future?}
{\pard\par}
{I think probably not. But, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{I do think that in terms of what I'll be doing is I will be. I guess providing maybe, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{patterns, instructions, probably on how to guide people to make the most of those technologies. Because I think, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{one of my, I guess, abilities is, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{that, that, you know, I am able to. I guess see creatively.}
{\pard\par}
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{whereas I think some people really, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{want to do it, but they don't necessarily have that inspiration themselves. So lots of people really want that guided tuition, which is what our sewing partners do, is they really are step-by-step, and they take you through every step of the way. To help you to make something that's unique to you whilst having effectively followed instructions.}
{\pard\par}
{So whilst when you go to Ikea and you buy your bookshelf, you follow the instructions step by step, everyone gets the same bookshelf. My concept is really that you follow the step by step, but ultimately because of the fabrics you choose and the placements and the customization that you make. Even though you followed it step by step your, your garment and or your Teddy will be different from the next person's.}
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:42:13] }
{That's kind of like the way that cars are sold in the, although they're all. Supposedly the same car. You find that by the time that all the different models and colors and additions and things with wing mirrors and whatever and everything, they're all actually very slightly different and, and you get to impose your individuality by like adding the extras.}
{\pard\par}
{And that's where they make a lot of money apparently. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:42:39] }
{Yeah. I think, you know, there's a lot of, so, }
{\strike\cf2 um. \strike0}
{Visible mending is something that's really interesting and that's along this sort of customization route as well, but also brings back in that kind of, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{eco ethos. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{but essentially, you know, you can teach someone how to Darn sock or patch a hole, but, but depending on how they apply, that learned knowledge will result in something that looks different.}
{\pard\par}
{And. Fix this. Something slightly different. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:43:11] }
{Hmm. Hmm. Interesting. So you're kind of really is renewing the garment. It's not just necessarily fixing it. It might be improving it in some way. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:43:27] }
{A lot of people are starting to use now is kind of. So pre loved and remade as kind of quite often. What? }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:43:38] }
{Oh, new buzzwords.}
{\pard\par}
{Excellent. Cool. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so, so listen, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{like I said, we're, we're do a transcript of this. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{it'll be out in a, in a few days if you want to send me any links over. }
{\strike\cf2 Um, \strike0}
{so that if people can follow up, but want to follow up on, like, on what you're doing or maybe, you know, some of the. The, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{kind of work that you think is interesting that other people are doing, do, do that.}
{\pard\par}
{And I'll drop it into the, what we call show notes, }
{\strike\cf2 um, \strike0}
{and, }
{\strike\cf2 uh, \strike0}
{and, and then people can kind of follow up on that if, if, if they want to. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:44:08] }
{Brilliant. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:44:09] }
{Brilliant. Listen, thanks so much. It's been fun actually. It's been good. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:44:13] }
{Good. Glad you enjoyed that. I've enjoyed talk to you. Speak to you soon. }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf1 Tim: \b0}
{[00:44:17] }
{Yeah. Good. Thanks a lot.}
{\pard\par}
{All right. Take care. And I, like I say, I'll let you know when it comes out }
{\pard\par}
{\b\cf3 Georgia: \b0}
{[00:44:21] }
{super.}
}