{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone Tim Panton:
\f1\b0  I'm Tim Panton, and this is the Distributed Future podcast. It is a podcast that comes and goes depending on when we've found somebody interesting we want to talk to, and the theme is really around trying to understand what the future is going to look like by talking to people now who are doing things that we think are indicative of where the future is going. So, it's subject-matter experts who understand some niche thing that we think may be important in the near future. With that said, they'll introduce themselves, and then we'll go from there.\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Hi, Tim. I'm very happy to be on the podcast. My name is Meng, and I live in Germany, Berlin. I just started my own startup called Glowstep. It's a space that we create to support people in transition, especially in tech. Either it could be they face layoffs or burnout, or they're returning from a long break. We know that for the recent years, a lot of things happen in tech industry, and by looking around us, there are more and more people who maybe face redundancy and find that it is super hard to find a job, but there were no extended support from the company or to teach us how to do that, because it has changed so differently than two years ago. Before working on Glowstep, I was an engineering manager. I worked in startups and enterprises like SAP and IBM for 20 years. For the past 20 years, my personal journey has always been going up and up\'97promotions or higher salaries\'97so this is the first time for me to see such a big change or uncertainty in the tech industry. We can talk more about this topic later, but right now we are focusing on using workshops and using AI tool to help people learn the next step.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  One of the key questions out of that is, do you feel that the nature of work has changed, or is it employment practice, or is it that big companies have changed? You say there's a change, but I'm trying to kind of get a sense of where you think it might be.\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yes, I think there are different dimensions about it. First, when I was still working at a company, I feel that the strategy has changed from, \'93We want to grow, we want to hire, and we want to expand in a lot of product areas,\'94 then we face a shift of, \'93Right now we have to stay where we are or shrink because the market has changed.\'94 How a company looks at the growth has changed. And then AI came into the place. Then we were told that right now AI will help us to do our jobs faster. There was also not a clear way on how we were going to use AI, but we all feel like now we have to start to learn this tool. On the employment market, with the chat with our current community members and with the recruiters, the situation is there are less jobs in the market but there are more and very good talented people on the market. So, the competition is high. A lot of people told us that the way they look for the job also changed. The usual experience was two years ago, the jobs were looking for us, but right now, we apply for jobs or they will be much less context from a recruiter and people have to be more proactively looking for employment opportunities. They've also experienced that they couldn't even land the first interview as easy as before.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  Wow. As a total aside from what you're saying, listening to you sounds like a really good time to do a startup. Because it sounds like\'97and this is my experience as well\'97there's a pool of really good people out there who are experienced, who are skilled, and who are available. That seems like a golden opportunity to me to go and build something really cool. But that's really not what you're... To an extent, that's what you're doing, actually. So I think that's really kind of odd that what you're saying is essentially that companies are reducing their risk and increasing their certainty by basically moving all the risk onto the employees and laying them off. And so there's a kind of shift of risk and certainty away from the employees and into the company. Is that fair? Or do you think that's a kind of socialist way of looking at it?\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Well, I cannot represent all the companies, but right now, the companies that we know and I personally work at or are coming through our members, I think the companies also are at the place that they\'92re very unsure what\'92s going to happen, and they would like to make sure that they could still be in the market. They\'92re very cautious about their financial runway. And one of the challenge, not only the revenue, like closing deals is much slower than before. Also, I think right now, depending on the company type, maybe it\'92s not that easier to do fundraising as before. I heard the terms like, \'93There\'92s no free money anymore.\'94 It is much harder terms to do a fundraising with the investor, and investor's also looking at where were the double-digit growth than before. So I think it's a much cautious market, and sometimes they have to do restructuring because due to the pressure from the stakeholder or they want to keep their runway as long as they could, and maybe the easier thing to do is to reduce the cost. And the human cost is high.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  It sounds to me like your perception is that the whole market, particularly in tech, but to some extent in just globally, is much riskier and the companies are trying to manage that by, as you say, extending their runways and being much more careful with financial resources. Again, this is sort of slightly off topic, but weirdly, I have the sense that that's not true in capital spending on AI. That is the one thing where people are throwing insane amounts of money at this. But it doesn't seem to be... Some of it is percolating out to employment, but actually, it seems to me that an awful lot of it is just pure capital. It's like building physical stuff like data centers and whatever, rather than necessarily investing in people. Which is, I think, new. I mean, tech always used to be about... Like, your big investment was the people and the code, and now it seems like it's the buildings. That's a weird change.\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yeah, and you're right. I think we see that some of the big companies don't have a revenue problem. Actually, they have history-high revenue, but I think they want to stay as top leaders in the market, and everybody bets on AI at the moment. And they want to be ahead of the game, so they shift their investment into AI, and they could spend tons of money to attract the top AI talent. Yeah, this is also one of the things that I think when we were in the growth phase, we put a lot of emphasis on people. Like, we want to attract the talent, we believe that people are the most important asset, but this feels like it has shifted. People look at how the big companies do thing, so I think right now it feels like there's no other way than reducing people and believe that some part of the workforce maybe will be replaced by AI and it's better to put the investment into AI now.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  Interesting. I spoke to a friend of mine who stopped working for Intel. He'd been working for Intel. I said, "Well, why are you not there? It looks like a lot of fun." And he said, "Well, the problem is that it's the same. Every job I get in Intel is the same. It's basically shutting it down. You shut down anything that's non-core." That was his job for five years. It was to go around, taking a division, and either selling it off or shutting it down. And he said that gets depressing after a while. So I think it's been going on for a while, but I think it's more extreme now. That's my sense of it anyway.\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  I think it could be. Because in the workshop we just did yesterday, there was someone who shared that he has been with the company for more than 20 years, and it has been focusing on innovation and emphasized a lot of the craft work we should do in engineering or in design, but for the past two years, it\'92s really a lot about how can we keep the cost down, how can we do work faster, and deliver faster? So it changed the focus much more onto speed. Working in engineering, a lot of the time it's, "Yes, we have to deliver faster, we have agile, we have different frameworks to help us to do that," but right now it feels like that's the top priority. We believe that by producing things faster, going to the customer's place, in the customer's hands, that is the way we should do it.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  I just want to clarify. Do you think that we're talking about the whole tech industry, or mostly about larger tech companies?\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  I am not sure about this. I see that in larger companies where they could invest in this, they have set up a different program. They also try to change the direction of, let's say it's not limited by title, but it's about skills and what kind of skills you have. I heard some of the companies, they start to think about how to be a full-stack builder. So even though let's say you don't have technical skills but would like to use AI to enable you to do that so that you could deliver an idea end-to-end in the fastest speed, and they would like to see more of this happening in the company. I think in small companies, it depends on where they are. Sometimes we saw that the small companies maybe struggle with the revenue and they believe that they have to deliver certain things fast so that they can sign the deals so they're not focusing much on people development, but more about delivering a product that could be solving the customer problems but in a much faster delivery speed.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  You mentioned your workshop. Coming back to that, how do those workshops help this problem? How do you feel that they enable people to, in the end, find another job or to achieve whatever it is their career goals are?\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yeah. I think we see this as different phases from the people that we connected to. Some people, let's say they just got laid off, or they are very lost in the transition and they are not happy with their current job, I think there is a preparation phase. They will be shocked and start to accept the new reality, and they want to use some time to figure out what could be their next step. Some of them know that they don't want to just get another job and then to repeat this again, and some are in the stage that they really want to increase their interview opportunities and how to learn a job, and some are thinking about, "How do I re-skill or how can I use this time to also learn something new so that I'm not only getting a job with the same title as before, but actually I'm already bring in new learnings that I have?"\
We build our workshop and product with our community together, so we started to understand what is the need. And we have different offerings. Like in the workshop, we have something we call The Next Step Workshop, and this is an important step for people to realign with their values, instead of, "Hey, here's how you could update your CV. Here's how ATS might scan your CV..." So, there is a pre-phase for that. From there onwards, we have different tools and frameworks to help people set up a job search strategy to know what is the role that you want to look for and not just apply for 500 jobs randomly because you're going to get a lot of rejection, but to have a much more targeted job search strategy. And then if we go deeper, it's how to know from recruiters' point of view, what they see in the current market, and we also have offline AI tools to help you to tailor to look for the jobs that are actually much more matching jobs for you, and how you could prepare for the job interviews.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  I just wanted to track back to something you mentioned about community, because that\'92s kind of one of the things that this podcast is super interested in, is community building and how communities help each other, and actually just how they arise, sometimes naturally and sometimes because they\'92ve been not exactly created, but helped along the way by active intervention. Can you talk a little bit about the community?\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yes. The reason we want to build a community was when we talked to the people, when we did the user interview, like, "What has been the most helpful thing for you?" Eighty percent of the answer is human connection. They feel sometimes in the frustration of facing rejection all this week, but the coffee chat with people and to understand that I'm not alone in this journey, it heals them. It gives them new energy to continue. That\'92s why we think even though job search feels like a very solo activity\'97you look for a job, you apply for it, you go to interview all by yourself\'97but at this phase where we lost our daily structure, we used to have work, we used to have meetings, and now we suddenly have a lot of freedom and the world has changed, like how we do interview and how do we do job search, I think it is quite important, first, to know that you are not alone and this is about the whole situation has changed. We believe that in the group, when people share their journey and support each other... Because even though it feels like I'm looking for a job and I'm in need, as human nature, we still would like to contribute. We still would like to help people. And when we are in the community and we learn about certain frameworks or do reflection, it is much more powerful that we hear other people's stories, we share how we feel, and sometimes, we help people out of their blind spot. So that's the power of community. And how do we run this? We use a lot of events and we have something we call Weekly Step online so that people can come here to see each other. And we have a micro exercise to do. For example, the topics we have done are like designing good days, how to reframe rejection. Next week, we have Closing the Year as the last event for this year. And we already have some online events planned until March next year. This is a way that we stay connected. We also have an online community in Discord, and we are still early with that and still experimenting with that, but right now I noticed that people are more active when they really come to an event instead of staying on Discord or on WhatsApp. The participation sometimes is not encouraging. I think seeing each other face to face online is still a warm environment for people to open up themselves.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  Yeah, I think that's super interesting. One of the reasons I wanted to talk to you is that in the last four or five months, I've come across several of these small, focused communities that are aiming to help people navigate a niche. A friend of mine is running a thing for solo startup founders. In fact, this is fascinating, and I may get them on the podcast later when things are a little bit more settled. But basically, their analysis was that with the rise of AI, you can be a solo founder. And the problem with that is that you've got no one to talk to. You've got no one to bounce ideas off, no one to share your successes with, and that kind of thing. So he's explicitly building a paid-for club for solo founders so that they can meet up every couple of weeks and share their successes and say, "Well, what do I do about this problem? The customer's not paying, what do I do?" That kind of stuff. Stuff that you would normally bounce off your co-founder or maybe your investors. But his analysis is that both co-founders and potentially even investors aren't necessary at the early stages these days because you can use AI to do a lot of the work. I'm not sure I totally buy his analysis, but I think the idea that you need to build a community to support the change of work is a common thing.\
There's another friend of mine who's running workshops for people who have burnt out, because her analysis is that there's an awful lot of people in tech who've worked far too hard for too long and now just don't have the energy to do anything or very little. And again, meeting in a group and hearing other people's stories that seem reminiscent helps people with their tactics for overcoming or deciding what it is they want to do, to be quite honest. I'm trying to think, there was another one. Yeah, there was another similar one, and I can't remember what it was now, but there are a bunch of these things of them doing something similar for people on maternity leave. These micro communities that are focused around a particular niche need, I think they're really interesting. I wonder whether you've got any sense of why now? What used to fill that niche? Why wasn't it necessary before, and why is there a sudden need for them now? I'm curious whether you've got a sense for that.\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  I think, first of all, when I was a solo founder, I also felt lonely sometimes. Even though I could, let's say, brainstorm with ChatGPT, etc, it is very different from meeting with a product manager friend and bouncing on ideas. That's totally different feelings. And why do we have so many micro communities? My guess is because we have the emergence of more people doing certain things. Like, more people got laid off, more people feel it is difficult to find a job right now, and more people think about, "What should I do? Should I look for another job? Maybe I have this idea that has been in mind, and maybe now is the best time to do that. And we could start as solo founders because we have some AI tools which help us to do things that we don't have to, let's say, before we maybe have to spend thousands of Euros to get something started, but right now it's much more affordable and you can build something fast by yourself." So I think we have much more audience who have this need. And this is still early and we're trying to figure out, and we realise that we need human connection and it is also fun to do this with other people. And we don't have a very mature organisation that already has mature programs to guide us to that, so I think it's a group of people have common interests or common challenge and find that with human connection, people bringing structures and people bringing ideas, there is more output and more fun doing it this way.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  When I was thinking about this discussion, it crossed my mind that, to some extent, this may be to do with the failure of social media. I think maybe five or six years ago, one might have just had this discussion on Facebook with a few friends. I have the sense that people don't use... You mentioned Discord, I think. I think there are social media platforms, but they're more tools than they are communities. And I think that where we see Facebook as a community, I don't think we do anymore. And likewise, Twitter. Twitter is no longer a community that many of us are prepared to be in. And so I wonder whether this need to build it ourselves is partly to do with the failures or the change in the way that social media works. Do you think I'm completely wrong there, or is that like...\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  No. I think, for example, I was also on some of the social media like Reddit or different subgroups. But sometimes I don't feel it's a super safe space. Sometimes I feel like certain people have a very strong voice, and sometimes I feel like there's quite a lot of judgment there. I don't feel like I truly belong in a big group, and I also don't know them. It's anonymous. Sometimes in a smaller group, people feel safer and feel like they have found their people and at least they kind of know each other. They have shared certain challenges or certain interests and they talk about that, so there is this sense of belonging in a smaller group. I think this is harder to achieve in a big social media platform, especially if you are an introvert, then you might be just hiding, consuming sometimes, but you don't feel you can fully be yourself and just say things that are on your mind.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  As somebody who is creating these spaces effectively, how hard is it to moderate that and to create the right vibe in those spaces? Again, presumably, you're aiming for a relatively professional but safe and welcoming vibe, and that must be an interesting game to try and balance. How do you go about that?\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yeah, there were also a lot of trial and errors. I was not a community builder before. I know that I could group people together and then discuss certain things together and craft a solution together, and I tried to use this skill into community building. To be honest, in the beginning, I didn't really know what's the best practice to do that. I tried to learn from some community builder, watched some YouTube videos, but in the end, I decided, "All right, I cannot just follow everything they say, and I'm going to do something myself." And I started by doing just a simple message on LinkedIn. Some people signed up; they\'92re very brave, and I\'92m very open to them. Basically, I have a proposal with the team: this is how I think we could run this community. Right now, we are in this situation, and how do we get to that goal? We could use some tools, we could do some exercise together, and then actively invite the community members to share feedback, and then to tweak how we should run this community. Also, I noticed sometimes people are not sure how to interact in the community or behave, and they will give feedback. It\'92s like, \'93Because I don\'92t know these people well, how can we have more ice-breaking communities? Can we talk about certain topics?\'94 So, there\'92s a lot of listening, and to understand that I\'92m a facilitator, I try to have a community where people can share things\'97not using my way, but to see that what\'92s the vibe of the community and encourage how do I create a safe space? They feel that they are free to share and also to have some certain boundaries. Otherwise, these people also feel this is too freestyle and hard to interact in that way.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  That's fascinating. It reminds me of a very long time ago, Vim and I did an interview with Jessica Rose, and I said something about community building and she put me straight. She said, "No, you don't create a community. You don't build a community. You facilitate one to form." And I thought that was interesting, that a genuine community is, to some extent, self-forming, and you only facilitate it and help it, rather than creating it. I'm not sure I totally agreed with it, but I'm not the expert, so I take the lesson there and assume that they know what they're talking about, and I probably don't. But I thought that was really interesting and I see that as quite an interesting set of challenges. I mean, as you're revolving these rules, do you write them down? Do you make them so that new members can read that? Or do you have a welcome pack? How do you communicate these rules to new members?\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yes, we write them down in Discord. We have a starting channel where people can see this. Actually, I learned this from my choir. I sing in a choir and we are quite a big community. We're a big community in Berlin and this choir has different branches. In Europe, for example, a lot of branches are in the UK. I think this is something that we learn, like we have to make certain rules and we have to announce to people. For example, encourage people to use their real name, to introduce themselves, what kind of things that they could post in this channel, what kind of things are maybe talked about separately or using threads to communicate. And in the weekly online workshop, wherever we start the workshop, we also let people know we have a certain reacher so that for the new joiner, they understand the reacher and they can participate. And for the regular joiners, I think this is also a sense of belonging. They know that, oh, we're going to have this reacher, we're going to do this as a first step. So, I think that is something that helps people to know where they put themselves and how they can behave in the community.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  That's really interesting. I was following an open source project that's forked. There's an interesting anti-AI thing moving in some circles and one of these projects is taking AI on quite aggressively, and there's a bunch of community members who don't want to and they're forking the project. What was fascinating was that in the old days, the first thing would have been to get a build out there and get something working. Now, actually, the first thing to do is to set up community standards and governance. One of the things that they were very worried about was the fact that the existing version, the people who are running it didn't really consult the community about AI. They just said, "Hey, we're going to do it." And so the fork is spending a lot of the initial energy in building a community rule set and also very explicitly trying to build a community that is independent of the founders so it will live on beyond them. And I thought that was actually really interesting that it's now accepted that governance and\'97I don't want to say rules and also standards, those are both harsh words, but structure actually is important to the life of the community. And I think acceptance of that is actually really interesting. It's not exactly new, but it's sort of come to the top again.\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yes. When we first wanted to start this community and call for participation, we actually already talked about what are some of the guidelines. I see this also as a way of consent. Like, getting people's consent that this is how we are going to do things, is that okay with you, if that's fine... I think we should have a common consensual that we know what we are joining. Otherwise, this creates skepticism or, "Oh, then I can just do whatever I want in the community," and I think this maybe later would become a challenge for the community itself. It's like, actually, "Who are we as a community? What do we stand for or support? And what are the things that we don't do?" So, I think it is better to talk about it in the upfront.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  I heard somebody suggesting that having those sorts of codes of conduct and explicit goals for the community out front acts as a filter against elements who you might not want in the community anywhere. Because they see the code of conduct and think, "Well, I can't be bothered to join that." And actually you end up filtering out people who you wouldn't have wanted, without them even having to kind of... It does an initial phase of work of getting down to a set of people who agree about some principles before they start, which I think is an interesting point. You don't even necessarily have to do... What am I trying to say? I'm trying to say that you don't actually have to push through on the guidelines. You may not actually have to discipline people or throw them out, because just the existence of the guidelines acts as enough of a filter in the first place. Again, I'm not totally sure I believe that, but I think it's an interesting point that it helps anyway.\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yeah, I find that it helps. But I think it also depends on the community builder. So, do you have a long list of conduct, or you have a couple of\'97let\'92s say\'97people understand the principles or the philosophy? It also depends on the builder. Do you want to not filter and let everybody in, and then you notice that this may not be part of the community and you want to invite them out? Or do you just think about how you imagine your community and then let other people know about this, so that it\'92s not something you suddenly find that, \'93Oh, I have to manage this situation.\'94 So I think it also depends a lot on the community organiser.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  Basically, setting expectations makes it easier for the organiser, but the organiser still has to do quite a lot of work to make sure that that is followed through. And to think, as you said very early on, to listen to people and to make sure that you're listening to what the community wants, and to some extent, delivering on that.\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yeah. I, myself, experienced that having a community is continuous work. It's a lot of work because of the human change. Humans have complex emotions. A lot of emotions. Also, facing job rejection, etc., there\'92s a lot of negative emotion. And then it is, let's say, not a community that sometimes there is excitement, but how do we deal with these constant changes of people's life? So I think there's a lot of work. I noticed that coming from an engineering major background is right now, for me, the top topic is how to understand humans better and how to understand my role better. Because I cannot solve everyone's problem and also this couldn't be my responsibility to solve people's problems, but actually to help people to have the ability and to manage their energy level on their journey.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  I think that's a huge contrast between the choir and the community you're helping to guide. Because the choir essentially has a fairly clear positive goal, and everyone kind of comes into it with presumably a love of singing and a happy attitude. Whereas having lost your job or needing to find another job, or being burnt out, those are relatively negative things. They can lead to positive outcomes, or hopefully they do, but when you're in the middle of them, they're pretty difficult and you're having to sit there in the middle of that. And as you say, I think taking the right level of responsibility is super hard. Knowing that you can't fix people's problems is sort of almost like having a teenager, you know? You can't fix their problems, but you can maybe help them find how to fix them themselves, which I think is always a challenge for parents. I suspect you're in the same ballpark with helping people find new jobs. Because it means a huge life change.\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yes, I think also I don't have a psychological professional background, so I'm also very mindful about what I say to people. But one thing is I feel like people are really facing a tough time, and getting professional help sometimes is not possible at this moment. That's why I feel like even though I don't have all the qualifications, but having this space for people is important, and this is also what they need. They would like to have the support or support each other, and then I try to seek out that do I know someone who could help to talk about a certain topic. That's why I connect with some of my recruiter friends, like, "Hey, could you help us to talk about certain things?" Or everybody talks about networking is super important now and I'm also not a networking superstar, but I try to find someone who is actually very comfortable with doing networking and have used this in their career, and then have a talk with the people and connect to some career cultures so that they can talk about, let's say right now, how do you approach job search? How to get the ATS CV, etc. I try to crowdsource the help we need for the community. This also helped me to reduce the burden that I have to fix all the problems and solve the problems myself.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  So, despite having said that you're not a super networker, you're actually using your network to help find people who can solve other people's problems? This sounds like a networking thing to me. I think you may be under-selling your own network there, or not realising the full value of what you've got there. One of the things that struck me in this conversation, and it sounds a bit kind of left field, but some of the things that you're talking about are things that used to be done by guilds, by unions, by structures of... If you think back into history, there was the Blacksmiths' Guild, and common problems that blacksmiths had would be dealt with by the Blacksmiths' Guild. They would maybe interface with the City Council and the tax authorities or whatever to try and get that community's point of view communicated to other people, but they also gave an external level of quality assurance. I wonder whether you think that these micro communities are in some way almost like proto unions or proto guilds, that they form the initial birth of new structures. Or do you think that they will stay as small and diverse as they are at the moment?\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  I think there will be synergy between different micro communities. Because I noticed we are not the only job-seeker support group, there are other communities, and sometimes I also think that maybe it's good that we partner up with each other. And we did. We partnered out with some of the groups in Sweden, in Berlin, and I think it's good to exchange ideas. I think a community really depends on the need. Right now we have this, but who knows, maybe in two years\'92 time the job market starts picking up again, people don\'92t have problems finding a job, then this community might change to something else or dismiss. But I see this as a very human nature that you mentioned. Yeah, this was a previous form of guild, and I think this is a natural way of human thinking, like we have a community, we group together and see how we can tackle the problems and share our learnings together. Even in the AI world, we are still using this approach.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  Right. I think that is the sort of unspoken subtopic here. It's kind of unspoken, but we haven't really dug into it. You know, what the changes that AI is bringing and will bring. I think that's another podcast, and maybe I need to find an AI or a sociology expert to have that conversation. But I think you're right that there's a change of foot around that. I wanted to ask you, and maybe it's too early in the process, but do you see some successes already? Do you feel like you're making a difference? Is there something you can, maybe in a vague way, talk about?\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yes. I think one thing is, with the community, we have people who've found jobs. We have people who landed more interviews using our tool. And we have people still in the process of finding a job, but they give feedback like, "Oh, I feel a sense of belonging. This community gives me energy. This community inspired me how I can handle rejections better." I see this already has an impact on people's lives. On the other hand, on a personal level, I see the growth in myself. I started to do this thing and I thought using my engineering head, "Okay, I'm going to build a system," but then I realised that, well, if I build a system that no one wants to use, what's the point? So I started to develop other skills like doing user interviews, designing how the prototype should look like. I started a community, even though I never did that before, and as a so small team with no external funding, I basically have to do a lot of things by myself. Right now I'm also learning, like, "Oh, how do we think about revenue in the future? What's the business model?" So, there also a lot of new things that I never did before in the past 20 years. I also see a reinvention of myself and that also makes me happy.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  Okay, that's really positive. Some of that is quite familiar to me, as having founded a number of businesses and worked for small businesses, and I think a lot of that is resonant of being a founder anyway, because quite often it can be an absolute hoot and it's an excuse to learn an immense amount very quickly. But it can be quite hard work. Are you managing to set boundaries and switch it off at the end of the day, or is it kind of burning into your private life as well?\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Yeah, I noticed that I work more than before, but I try to set boundaries. I enjoy flexibility, so sometimes I do work on the weekends, but then I have other times to switch off during the week. Also, I enjoy what I\'92m doing right now, so the feeling is different. Maybe before that, I felt like I had to do this. I have no other choice, and I need to do this. But right now, I have only myself to blame. And then I have to ask myself that my time is limited, where would I spend my energy at? As a first-time founder, I think there are a lot of things that\'85 I struggled with prioritisation in the beginning because I saw that there are opportunities everywhere, and I can do this and that, but this doesn\'92t bring progress. Or I feel like, \'93Huh, what did I do in the end?\'94 So I think it\'92s also a test for my prioritisation skill. Then I also adjusted my style to make a weekly plan, and then more reflection\'97much more reflection than before\'97on what have I done, does it match where we want to go, and don\'92t beat myself up. It\'92s like, \'93Hey, treat this as your first time doing this. This could be A/B testing. If this doesn\'92t work, maybe the timing is not correct. Or maybe we\'92re talking to the wrong people, let\'92s find another way to do that.\'94\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  Those are actually really good founders' lessons, and I'm in awe of you having found them that fast because it took me decades to get that far. So, well done. One of the questions we often ask on this podcast is, how do you see\'97 because we\'92re supposed to be a future-looking podcast\'97 where do you see a five-year time? And ideally something positive. We like to end with something relatively positive, rather than like, \'93Oh, well, too gloomy.\'94 But where do you see five years\'92 time? Where do you see this process going in five years\'92 time?\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Okay. On the positive side, I hope that we're still not doing a lot of layoffs, but we have kind of built a foundation for the future of work and that we understand how we're going to use AI to enable us to do that. We have some future visions with our startup. We start with supporting people who are in transition, because that is a very real pain at the moment, but we are also thinking that the future of work is changing and we have aging problems in Europe as well. So we are thinking, how can we support in that and build a foundation where we are prepared for this change in the future? But we started with this, and hopefully, we can provide more insights and actually have a path for some people. I wouldn't say for all of the people, but for some people to have a path to see how they can do this transition in five years' time.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  Wow, that's cool. That's actually very ambitious as well. That's very positive. Now, what we tend to find with this is that people will listen to the podcast and then maybe want to go and read up on what you're doing or related things. So if you can maybe send me a few links to what you're doing or to relevant other projects or background reading or something, that would be great. Because what I'll do is I'll put them into the show notes, and then when people listen to the podcast, that's available for them to kind of follow up and maybe get in contact with you or maybe just read an article you thought was interesting, or whatever. If you could do that, that would be lovely and I will put them in the show notes. Thanks so much for doing this talk. I think it\'92s a really interesting area, and I think it\'92s something that\'92s, as I say, just on the cusp of becoming quite a big thing\'97these micro communities. So I'm fascinated to see how that plays out. What we should have talked about and didn't was the tooling, but that's kind of more engineering-based, and I think the psychology of this is probably more exciting or more new. Yeah. Thank you so much for doing this. I really appreciate it, and we\'92ll put this podcast out in a week or two.\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Thank you, Tim. Thank you for having me here.\

\f0\b Tim:
\f1\b0  Okay, thank you. Bye.\

\f0\b Meng:
\f1\b0  Bye.\
\
}