{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
\margl1800\margr1800\margb1440\margt1440\deflang1033\lndscpsxn
{\colortbl;
}
{\fonttbl;
{\f0 Arial}
}
{\b\fs36 Video calls\b0}
{\pard\par}
{I'm Tim Panton and this is the distributed future podcast, or it's kind of the distributed future podcast in the sense that it's probably not going to be a full edition. The. I suspect that we're going to take a bit of a break in producing these podcasts. We've been doing them every couple of weeks for a year or two now.}
{\pard\par}
{but with the virus is getting logistically pretty difficult. not least because, it's unreasonable to ask people to predict the future. At the moment. I found the last couple of ones I did. It's very hard to say to people, well, what's the future gonna look like in five years when most of us can hardly predict five days into the future at the moment?}
{\pard\par}
{So I found that spectacularly hard and unreasonable to do for our guests. the other thing that I've found is that, our tactic for finding interesting people to, to. Come onto the show and talk to us. It's typically been two for us, both to go to events, separately to different events and then just meet people in the corridors or in the after sessions and say.}
{\pard\par}
{Talk to them and find these interesting people and then, ask them to come on the show. And that, that's worked very well. We've had some fantastic people on, but in the current days of zoom, that doesn't work. You don't meet new people. you certainly don't meet them in the same relaxed way that we, have.}
{\pard\par}
{Really real physical events and get a real sense of them. So we're finding a very difficult to find new guests who, We've met. I, would like some feedback of course, on, on what we're doing. so if you. Would care to email Tim@distributedfutu.Re  that would be wonderful. let us know what you'd like us to do in the future.}
{\pard\par}
{I think we'll probably end up doing maybe one a month, possibly shorter as well. We'll see how that plays out. One thing I did want to talk about at least briefly, is what I've been working on in the last month or so, which is to try and take. The, real time apps that we've got and make them more socially useful.}
{\pard\par}
{So if you think about something like zoom, it's been fantastic. A lot of people have used it. It's been, like web RTC in general, that realtime video conferencing has been the glue that's held society together in effect. And I think that's been a huge, huge achievement. But zoom is a business tool. And as I was saying earlier.}
{\pard\par}
{Somewhat limits the interaction that you can have to the, semantics of a business meeting. I read somewhere today, Adrienne Porter felt saying that her toddler doesn't understand the semantics of zoom, that you have to wait for the other person to finish speaking before you can speak. Otherwise, neither of you can hear each other.}
{\pard\par}
{and was that she was asking for like. A video conferencing app that was toddler friendly, which I thought was fascinating. And so that's actually exactly what I've been, not the toddler app part, but that's what I've been spending the last month or so doing, which is to build video and audio conferencing apps that are narrowcasted at niche applications.}
{\pard\par}
{so things like book clubs, video calling for people who don't do social networking and aren't. aren't comfortable with that, but, so video calling that's triggered via an SMS or an email. and it's really simple to use on smartphones and, and, and those sorts of, activities have been keeping me busy building these, these apps.}
{\pard\par}
{little test apps and apps that allow you to keep in contact with your friends. But, but what we're. We haven't even approached is how do you get to meet new people? And I think that's going to be, a real challenge in the future. And I'd love to hear any of your thoughts on that. So it's just a, email me, Tim at distributed future, I'll, read it and Vim and I will reply when we have the chance and the anything sensible to say in the meantime.}
{\pard\par}
{I hope he'll, Keep subscribing and we'll probably say, put out one of these probably once a month, possibly shorter than, the new one hour once we had been doing. But let's see how that plays out. I, well base that on the feedback that we get from you.}
{\pard\par}
{So thank you for listening and stay safe.}
}